# Special Isogenies (30pts)
## Road to CSIDH

## Description
For the SIDH challenges, the torsion basis E[n]=⟨P,Q⟩E[n] = \langle P, Q \rangleE[n]=⟨P,Q⟩ had two generators and we could compute many kernel generators which were linearly independent. This meant for large n we had a huge number of isogenies to pick from when walking through the graph. The downside was that to have a commutative key exchange, it was not enough to send the codomain but also the image of a torsion bases through the secret isogeny. This additional information ultimately led to the polynomial time break of the SIDH protocol.CSIDH on the other hand works with supersingular elliptic curves over the field Fp\FpFp​. This radically changes the supersingular isogeny graph. One consequence of this is that E(Fp)=Z/(p+1)E(\Fp) = \mathbb{Z}/(p+1)E(Fp​)=Z/(p+1); there is a unique order ℓ\ellℓ-subgroup which generates an ℓ\ellℓ-isogeny.If you have seen pictures of the CSIDH isogeny graphs, you may remember that each vertex has two edges. Although both of these edges are Fp\FpFp​ rational isogenies (their codomains are curves E/FpE/\FpE/Fp​), they are not both generated by Fp\FpFp​ rational points. We will learn more about this later in "Twisted CSIDH Isogenies". For now, work under the assumption that all isogenies we compute are generated by rational points PPP of order ℓ\ellℓ on E/FpE/\FpE/Fp​.Let's look at this practically. Take the below curve and compute any point of order 5. Use this point to compute an isogeny of degree 5 and look at the curve equation. Now compute another point of order 5 and repeat the calculation. What do you see?To solve this challenge, compute the codomain of a degree 5 isogeny in the Montgomery model. The flag is the Montgomery coefficient A.E0:y2=x3+xmod  419E_0 : y^{2} = x^{3} + x \mod 419E0​:y2=x3+xmod419Resources:  - Isogenies: The basics, some applications, and nothing much in between, Lorenz Panny  - A simple and compact algorithm for SIDH with arbitrary degree isogenies, Craig Costello and Huseyin Hisil
