# Secure Protocols (5pts)
## TLS Part 1: The Protocol

## Description
The rest of CryptoHack focusses on cryptographic primitives, low-level building blocks such as symmetric ciphers, public-key algorithms, and hash functions. This section however looks at cryptographic protocols. Cryptographic protocols are what happen when primitives are combined together, enabling two or more parties to communicate securely.A good cryptographic protocol addresses the three core ideas of security (the CIA triad): Confidentiality: keeping secrets Authenticity: verifying identities Integrity: ensuring safe transport Transport Layer Security (TLS) is the most widespread cryptographic protocol; an average Internet user initiates hundreds of TLS connections every day. TLS aims to provide secure communication, meeting the above three requirements, over the insecure network infrastructure of the Internet. Most commonly TLS is used to secure HTTP traffic from a browser. To achieve this there are multiple major components, including TLS certificates, Certificate Authorities (CAs), a handshake phase, and more that we will cover.Some still refer to TLS as SSL, which stands for Secure Sockets Layer, and was the older version of the protocol. The first version of TLS was defined in 1999.Providing cryptographic security for Internet HTTP traffic is the core design goal of TLS. However, for TLS to be useful, security could not be the only goal. A wide range of devices communicate using TLS, from underpowered smartphones to powerful webservers, leading to three additional goals: Interoperability: aims to ensure that two devices can communicate even if they are using different TLS implementations which support different sets of algorithms. Extensibility: means TLS can support many extra use-cases through optional extensions without overcomplicating the core protocol. Efficiency: important so that the performance cost of TLS is not too high, especially on low-end devices where cryptographic operations are slow. The last main point to cover here is that there have been several versions of TLS, each of which has improved the protocol, and patched known vulnerabilities. Almost all devices in use today can be counted upon to support TLS 1.2 (released 2008), which is still considered reasonably secure, even though the current version TLS 1.3 (released 2018) offers major improvements. A small percentage of servers still support the now-ancient TLS 1.0 and even SSL 3.0 (which are vulnerable to several exploits) due to misconfigurations or the need to allow ancient hardware to connect to them. This shows how interoperability can work against security. To get the flag for this challenge, browse to tls1.cryptohack.org and find the name of the certificate authority organisation which issued the TLS certificate for the domain - this can be done purely within the browser. We'll explore the role of certificate authorities more in future challenges!Resources:  - SSL Labs Statistics
