# Proofs of Knowledge (20pts)
## Sigma Protocol

## Server
`socket.cryptohack.org 13425`

## Description
Zero knowledge proofs are a tool in modern cryptography which allows you to prove that you know some witness which satisfies a relation, without revealing what the witness is. This has applications everywhere from signature schemes and privacy preserving cryptocurrencies, to one of the building blocks of secure multiparty computation. For this first set of challenges, we are going to be looking at a protocol for proving knowledge of a discrete logarithm. The Prover (P) wants to prove to the Verifier (V) that she knows some witness www such that gw=ymod  p g^{w} =y \mod pgw=ymodp where ggg generates a group Fp∗\Fp^*Fp∗​ where computing the Discrete Logarithm (DLOG) is hard. More generally, we talk about a proving knowledge of the public information (the "statement") and the witness satisfying some relation, for example, for the DLOG  relation RdlogR_{\text{dlog}}Rdlog​. We have statement (p,q,g,y)(p,q,g,y)(p,q,g,y) defining a subgroup of Fp∗\Fp^{*}Fp∗​ generated by ggg of order qqq, where p,qp,qp,q are prime, and yyy is an element of the subgroup. The "Witness" www is then the discrete logarithm of yyy with respect to ggg, which we denote as tuple ((p,q,g,y),w)∈Rdlog((p,q,g,y),w) \in R_{\text{dlog}}((p,q,g,y),w)∈Rdlog​ We start with a simple interactive protocol by Schnorr to prove knowledge of a discrete logarithm for public parameters x=(p,q,g,y)x=(p,q,g,y)x=(p,q,g,y) and private input www where gw=ymod  pg^{w}=y \mod pgw=ymodp. Note that zzz is computed modulo qqq. This is because these operations are happening in the "exponent" of the verification equation, where the group generated by ggg has order qqq.Note the three message form of this protocol: P sends some message aaa to V V sends a random ttt-bit string to P (the challenge) P sends some message zzz to V. V now decides to accept or reject (⊤,⊥)(\top,\bot)(⊤,⊥) based on (x,a,e,z)(x,a,e,z)(x,a,e,z) This is an instance of a so-called Sigma protocol, often denoted Σ\SigmaΣ-Protocol. A type of zero-knowledge proof with many nice properties.To show that something of this structure is a Σ\SigmaΣ-Protocol, there are three additional properties the protocol has to satisfy, which we will now introduce over the next three challenges: Completeness: if P,V run the protocol on public input xxx and private input www, where (x,w)∈R(x,w) \in R(x,w)∈R, then V returns ⊤\top⊤.  Special Soundness: "If P can convince V, then P knows www" SHVZK: "V doesn't learn anything about www from P" We will discuss Special Soundness and SHVZK (Special-Honest-Verifier-Zero-Knowledge) more in following challenges. For now, lets start with Completeness! The aim of this challenge series is to give a first introduction to the key concepts of modern zero knowledge protocols. For those wishing to see a more formal treatment, I recommend resources such as the Σ\SigmaΣ-Protocols lecture notes by Damgård on which served as the inspiration for some of these challenges.Can you implement P's side of the protocol, and prove to the server that you know a witness www that satisfies the relation y=gwmod  Py = g^{w} \mod Py=gwmodP, making it return accept? Note: The next few challenges in this set aren't built to be difficult "CTF" challenges, but rather built to give you an intuition for how we construct and prove the security of Zero Knowledge protocols. For people interested in learning, it's recommended for your solve scripts to try and follow the protocol/challenge suggestions in your solve scripts as well. (For example, making sure to sample rrr randomly each time rather than fixing it, etc.) Connect at socket.cryptohack.org 13425Challenge files:  - 13425.pyChallenge contributed by killerdog

## Files
- `13425.py`
