# Saying Hello (20pts)
## TLS Part 1: The Protocol

## Description
As we've seen, TLS connections begin with a handshake, where the client (normally a browser) and server agree on important parameters that will define the remainder of the connection. The parameters exchanged allow a shared secret to be generated, and after the handshake is complete, the shared secret is used to symmetrically encrypt subsequent application data.At a high level TLS messages are called "records". The record format starts with a short header, which contains information about the TLS version, the content type of the message (handshake, change cipher spec, application data, and alert), and the data length. Then the data follows.The first message sent is the ClientHello, where the client sends the server the following data:  A list of cipher suites it supports The highest TLS version it supports A list of extensions and compression methods it supports A random number (used to provide entropy in the key exchange, as seen in the previous challenge) A session ID to identify the connection The TLS cipher suite that is negotiated is crucial as it specifies the cryptographic primitives that will be used. A cipher suite name is a human-readable representation of a cipher suite, and it looks like this: ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:  ECDHE is the Elliptic-curve Diffie–Hellman algorithm used for key exchange. RSA is used to sign the certificate. This field is sometimes missing, in which case the signature algorithm to be used is negotiated in the signature_algorithms extension. In Wireshark, you can see the client's desired signature algorithms in the ClientHello message. AES-128 is used to symmetrically encrypt the application data. GCM is the mode of operation that will be used for AES. SHA256 will be used for handshake authentication. You can check ciphersuite.info for more information about specific cipher suites.Now for the challenge: the server "tls1.cryptohack.org" speaks both TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and supports only a single TLS 1.2 cipher suite. What is this cipher suite? Give your answer in a similar format to the cipher suite name above (OpenSSL format).To avoid a TLS 1.3 handshake, you can use curl or openssl commands with specific flags to specify that TLS 1.2 is the maximum version you support in your ClientHello message, or you can use an online tool like Qualys SSL Labs to get all the TLS information about the server to solve this.
