# What's a Lattice? (40pts)
## Lattices

## Description
We're now ready to start talking about lattices. Given a set of linearly independent vectors v1,v2,…,vn∈Rmv_{1}, v_{2}, \ldots, v_{n} \in R^mv1​,v2​,…,vn​∈Rm, the lattice LLL generated by v1,v2,…,vnv_{1}, v_{2}, \ldots, v_{n}v1​,v2​,…,vn​ is the set of linearly independent vectors v1,v2,…,vnv_{1}, v_{2}, \ldots, v_{n}v1​,v2​,…,vn​ with integer coefficients. L=a1⋅v1+a2⋅v2+…+ak⋅vk:a1,a2,…,an∈ZL = {a_{1} \cdot v_{1} + a_{2} \cdot v_{2} + \ldots + a_{k} \cdot v_{k} : a_{1}, a_{2}, \ldots, a_{n} \in \mathbb{Z}}L=a1​⋅v1​+a2​⋅v2​+…+ak​⋅vk​:a1​,a2​,…,an​∈Z. The basis for the lattice LLL is any set of independent vectors that generates LLL. The choice of basis is far from unique. In the image below, we show a two dimensional lattice with two different basis vectors given by u1,u2u_{1}, u_{2}u1​,u2​ and v1,v2v_{1}, v_{2}v1​,v2​.  Using a basis, we can reach any point within the lattice with integer multiples of the basis vectors. The basis vectors also define the fundamental domain: F(v1,…,vn)=t1v1+t2v2+…+tnvn:0≤ti<1F(v_{1},\ldots,v_{n}) = {t_{1} v_{1} + t_{2} v_{2} + \ldots + t_{n} v_{n} :  0 \leq t_{i} < 1}F(v1​,…,vn​)=t1​v1​+t2​v2​+…+tn​vn​:0≤ti​<1. As a two dimensional example, the fundamental domain is the parallelogram with sides u1u_{1}u1​ and u2u_{2}u2​.We can calculate the volume of the fundamental domain from the basis vectors. As an example, let us take a two dimensional lattice with basis vectors v=(2,5),u=(3,1)v = (2,5), u = (3,1)v=(2,5),u=(3,1). Create a matrix AAA with rows corresponding to the basis vectors: A=[[2,5],[3,1]]A = [[2,5],[3,1]]A=[[2,5],[3,1]]. The volume of the fundamental domain is the magnitude of the determinant of A: vol(F)=∣det⁡(A)∣=∣2⋅1−5⋅3∣=∣−13∣=13\text{vol}(F) = |\det(A)| = |2 \cdot 1 - 5 \cdot 3| = |-13| = 13vol(F)=∣det(A)∣=∣2⋅1−5⋅3∣=∣−13∣=13.For the flag, calculate the volume of the fundamental domain with the basis vectors v1=(6,2,−3),v2=(5,1,4),v3=(2,7,1)v_{1} = (6, 2, -3), v_{2} = (5, 1, 4), v_{3} = (2, 7, 1)v1​=(6,2,−3),v2​=(5,1,4),v3​=(2,7,1).
