# Honest Verifier Zero Knowledge (30pts)
## Sigma Protocol

## Server
`socket.cryptohack.org 13427`

## Description
The previous challenge showed that this protocol satisfies Special Soundness! That is, if P can convince V that he knows www with non-negligible probability, then we are able to efficiently "extract" www from P, which shows that www (or material to efficiently compute the www) "exists" somewhere inside the prover.Special Soundness vs Soundness: Soundness is the property that a prover who doesn't know the witness cannot convince the verifier to accept with probability higher than 1/challenge space. Special soundness is a stronger property used when discussing Σ\SigmaΣ-Protocols and directly implies soundness, (can you see why?) but also provides many other nice properties for Σ\SigmaΣ-Protocols like witness extraction, some of which we will use later.The final property is (Special-)Honest-Verifier-Zero-Knowledge. This is a bit of a mouthful, so lets break it down.Honest Verifier: This property is specifically looking at the case of a prover interacting with an honest verifier. That is a verifier who will follow the protocol exactly. Specifically this means that eee is guaranteed to be a uniformly random ttt-bit bitstring, and independent of all other values in the protocol.Zero Knowledge: This property means that the Verifier learns "nothing" about the witness. The way we prove this is by showing that there exists an efficient simulator S, who on input S(x,e)S(x,e)S(x,e), can produce a satisfying transcript (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) which is indistinguishable from a transcript of a real interaction between a Prover and a Verifier. In our specific case this means, S((p,q,g,y),e)S((p,q,g,y), e)S((p,q,g,y),e) -> (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) where (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) is an accepting transcript proving knowledge of some witness www such that y=gwmod  py = g^w \mod py=gwmodp.The word indistinguishable here is important. In formal proofs you need to show that the distributions of each message in the transcript generated by the simulator are (computationally/statistically) indistinguishable from message produced in the real protocol between an honest prover/verifier. Special: In SHVZK the simulator takes (parameters,e)(\texttt{parameters},e)(parameters,e) and produces (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) whereas in HVZK the simulator is allowed to choose eee itself. There are efficient generic transformations which make an HVZK protocol into a SHVZK protocol, so the difference isn't important here. Note that the simulator never received www as an input, so it doesn't know the witness. And it has to be efficient, so (assuming the discrete logarithm problem is hard) it can't efficiently compute www either. The trick here is that the simulator is allowed to select its aaa value after seeing the challenge, allowing it to then sample a uniformly random z∈Fq∗z \in \Fq^*z∈Fq∗​, and then compute an aaa such that (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) satisfies the verifiers checks! Note the following observations: If there exists Simulator which can efficiently produce a satisfying transcript (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) from only public data, then it follows that a verifier having access to an accepting (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) should give it no advantage in computing the witness www. This is because the Verifier can just create arbitrary many accepting (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) transcripts itself by just running the Simulator locally. The only difference in the real protocol is that the verifier generates challenge eee after seeing aaa. However, since an honest verifier is sampling eee uniformly at random, it can't actually influence the protocol in any way as a result of having seen aaa before it chose eee. Indeed the eee value could just as well have been randomly sampled by and sent from the Prover! Due to (2), the fact that the verifier sees aaa first, then sees eee, then zzz, should give it no advantage in learning www compared to just having seen the complete transcript at the end. And by (1), seeing the complete transcript doesn't teach it anything about www, since it could have computed any number equivalent transcripts locally without even talking to the Prover. This shows that for an Honest verifier, if there exists such a simulator, then from completing the protocol with P the verifier doesn't learn anything extra that it couldn't have efficiently computed locally, other than the fact that P knows www. This technique gives the simulator "more power" than the Prover would have in the real world. However, it does not create a gap between what the Verifier is able to learn from P in the Simulator world and the real world. This is a very common technique for proving that a protocol is zero knowledge. In this case it's allowing the simulator to select a,za,za,z out of order, but other protocols might use things like programmable random oracles, a trapdoored common reference string or some other simulator "advantage" to allow simulation or extraction.For this challenge, you'll construct such a simulator :)Note: hint: Start by generating a uniformly random zzz (this is required for the indistinguishability property mentioned above), then look at what the verifier actually checks, to work out how to compute an aaa such that (a,e,z)(a,e,z)(a,e,z) is an accepting transcript.Connect at socket.cryptohack.org 13427Challenge files:  - 13427.pyChallenge contributed by killerdog

## Files
- `13427.py`
